# CSS in js

## Introduction

Css-in-js is a solution for quick implementation. Even though we recognize the advantages, and there are many, Its limitations come also very quickly when the Components implementation is poorly designed and not optimized. As of today, only 2% of the websites use css-in-js. This raise a big question on why are we following so-called cutting-edge tools that are only used by so few in the industry. Even those who promote them don’t use it. Or just in some tech showcases.Preprocess the css is a traditional, highly performant technique. It requires devs to work with css files, structure the components with more classic tags. This is the de facto solution when we want to improve the performance, without sacrificing velocity. Plus, with the power of sass, it is possible to use variables, auto-completion, create functions etc… for more flexibility in general.

### Thoughts

We need a clear standardization between design and development. The design process today is too flexible and not stable. New elements in prototypes are not necessarily the same compare to previous one, despite being the exact same reusable component. Therefore it is basically impossible to implement the UI in a smooth and straightforward pace. If the devs have to pixel-perfect (or almost) style every component without a DSM, a simple feature can easily take 2, 3x more time just because of the lack of uniformity. **As long as we don’t have a shared library of component between design and development, with fixed sizes, layouts, and other styling properties and elements, respecting the design pixel perfect is impossible during development, or we accept to waste lots of time. In the long term it is a poor strategy.** (Exemple, style a simple dialog pixel perfect - feat archivage projets - takes half work day to do. Let’s Image a feature like digital signature)Also, ADOBE XD prototypes use absolute positioning for elements, which is obviously not how UI elements are implemented in real. We use flex box, the web standard layout system. This creates a conflict between the design vision and the development vision. And for developers, it is a real pain to implement on time when we have many other tasks during the sprint. There is also the necessity of creating a state of the art specific to the company.

Although the argument exists that writing CSS-in-JS improves efficiency, it does have some downsides to it. For starters, it’s not very beginner-friendly. CSS-in-JS libraries tend to come up with definitions of logic for various concepts almost peculiar to each library.

Another key issue, and this may sound unlikely, is security. A library like `styled-components` lets you embed JavaScript in CSS, this implies that if there’s sensitive code, like user input in your CSS, your app would be prone to XSS attacks. Thus it’s important to keep stuff like user input away from your styles and for everyone else on your team – if it’s a collaborative project – to understand this as well. Given this security risk, it’s worth asking if styling a JS component is even worth it.
